feat(edge-services): update doc following migration (#6556)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/edge-services/how-to/configure-cache.mdx

title: How to configure an Edge Services cache
description: Learn how to configure a cache for Edge Services. Enhance performance and finely control your cached objects via purging (cache invalidation).
dates:
  validation: 2026-06-09
  posted: 2024-07-24
tags: object-storage edge-services cdn network cache purge
---
import Requirements from '@macros/iam/requirements.mdx'

> The cache feature allows you to cache your backend's content with Edge Services. This means that content can be served directly to users from Edge Services' servers, instead of from your backend, enhancing performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cache feature lets Edge Services store and serve your backend's content to users directly from its own servers, not from your backend, enhancing performance.
```

You can disable and enable caching at will, as well as control the lifetime of an object in the cache. You can also purge your entire cache, or specific objects within it. A log is displayed to help you track your purge events.

<Requirements />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- An [Edge Services pipeline](/edge-services/how-to/create-pipeline/)

## How to enable the cache

1. Click **Edge Services** in the **Network** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. A listing of your pipelines displays.

2. Click the name of the pipeline you want to enable cache for, then open the **Settings** tab.

3. In the **Cache** panel, click **Enable cache**. A configuration pop-up displays.

4. Configure the **Lifetime** of the cached objects to define how long they can be stored in the cache before they must be retrieved freshly from the pipeline backend.

    <Message type="tip">

>     A value of 0 means that objects will not be cached, unless they have a separately-defined caching directive. Note that in any case, if an object has a caching directive, the caching directive always takes precedence over any lifetime setting defined here in Edge Services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    A value of 0 means that objects will not be cached, unless you define a caching directive separately. Note that in any case, if an object has a caching directive, the caching directive always takes precedence over any lifetime setting defined here in Edge Services.
```

2. Click the name of the pipeline you want to enable cache for, then open the **Settings** tab.

3. In the **Purge cache** panel, click **Purge all**.

    A pop-up displays, warning you that your cache will be emptied, and Edge Services will have to retrieve objects from your backend before re-caching them.
        
4. Click **Purge cache** to confirm.

    All objects are purged from your cache.

## How to purge specific objects from your cache

This allows you to specify the precise objects that you want to clear from the cache. Afterward, Edge Services will retrieve fresh copies from the backend before it stores them again in the cache.

1. Click **Edge Services** in the **Network** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. A listing of your pipelines displays.

2. Click the name of the pipeline you want to enable cache for, then open the **Settings** tab.

3. In the **Purge cache** panel, click **Purge by object**.
        
    A pop-up displays prompting you to enter the path of each object you want to purge from the cache.

> 4. Enter the path of each object you want to purge. You can purge a maximum of 5 objects at a time.

Reviewer 2: In theory, we should say "five objects" but I actually also prefer "5 objects".

      </Message>

5. Click **Purge objects from cache**.

    The specified objects are purged from your cache.

## How to use Cache-Control

To avoid repeated purging, you can also set the `Cache-Control` HTTP header directly on your files/objects. This allows you to define how long items should remain in the cache before being freshly retrieved from the backend. Edge Services will respect this header when determining where to fetch content.

For Object Storage bucket backends, the following example call to the S3 API updates the `Cache-Control` header for **all** objects in the bucket, setting a maximum age of 60 seconds before they must be freshly retrieved. 

```
./s3cmd --recursive modify --add-header="Cache-Control:max-age=60" s3://yourbucket/
```

## How to disable your cache

1. Click **Edge Services** in the **Network** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. A listing of your pipelines displays.

2. Click the name of the pipeline you want to enable cache for, then open the **Settings** tab.

> 2. In the **Cache** panel, click **Disable cache**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. In the **Cache** panel, click **Disable cache**.
```

> 2. In the **Cache** panel, click **Disable cache**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Cache** panel, click **Disable cache**.
```

    A pop-up displays, asking you to confirm the action.

> 3. Click **Disable cache**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Click **Disable cache**.
```

> 3. Click **Disable cache**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Disable cache**.
```

>     Your cache is purged and disabled. Edge Services will now serve content by fetching it from your pipeline backend directly. If you reenable your cache at a later point, you will begin with an empty cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your cache is purged and disabled. Edge Services will now serve content by fetching it from your pipeline backend directly. If you re-enable your cache later, it will start empty.
```
